Revolutionary War|The first shots of the American Revolution rang out at Lexington and Concord on April 19, 1775. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|Paul Revere’s midnight ride in 1775 warned the colonists that the British were coming. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|George Washington crossed the icy Delaware River on Christmas night 1776 for a surprise attack. (Mount Vernon)
Revolutionary War|The Battle of Saratoga in 1777 convinced France to join the American side. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|Over 10,000 American prisoners died on British prison ships — more than died in battle. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4, 1776. (Mount Vernon)
Revolutionary War|Women disguised themselves as men to fight in the Continental Army. (American Revolution Institute)
Revolutionary War|The British burned New York City in 1776 during the war. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The war cost Britain over £100 million — a staggering sum at the time. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The Treaty of Paris in 1783 officially ended the war and recognized American independence. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|Over 230,000 Americans served in the Continental Army. (PBS Ken Burns)
Revolutionary War|Smallpox killed more Americans than British bullets during the war years. (PBS)
Revolutionary War|The first submarine attack in history happened in New York Harbor in 1776. (RevolutionaryWar.us)
Revolutionary War|Native American tribes fought on both sides of the conflict. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The British occupied New York City for nearly the entire war. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|France provided the naval support that forced the British surrender at Yorktown. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|Over 100,000 Loyalists fled the United States after the war. (Mount Vernon)
Revolutionary War|The war was a multi-national conflict involving Britain, France, Spain, and Hessian mercenaries. (Battlefields.org)
Revolutionary War|The Continental Army was often unpaid and short on supplies. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The final major battle was Yorktown in 1781. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The war lasted 8 years until the Treaty of Paris. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The first shot fired is known as “the shot heard round the world.” (History.com)
Revolutionary War|Roughly 1 in 4 Continental soldiers died. (PBS)
Revolutionary War|The war ended British imperial rule over the 13 colonies. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The Continental Congress ratified the Treaty of Paris on January 14, 1784. (Library of Congress)
Revolutionary War|Over 7,000 British and Hessian troops surrendered at Yorktown. (PBS)
Revolutionary War|The war was a civil war within the British Empire until France joined in 1778. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The Sugar Act, Stamp Act, and Intolerable Acts fueled colonial anger. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The war began in earnest on April 19, 1775. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|The Declaration of Independence formally dissolved ties with Britain. (Mount Vernon)
Revolutionary War|The war plunged the continent into full-scale conflict. (Mount Vernon)
Revolutionary War|There were 165 principal engagements from 1775–1783. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|The war was the catalyst for American independence. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|The British were fighting a world war on three continents. (Big Think)
Revolutionary War|The way the British treated prisoners of war was horrific. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The war saw the first use of the submarine in combat. (RevolutionaryWar.us)
Revolutionary War|Benedict Arnold was one of the best early generals before his treason. (RevolutionaryWar.us)
Revolutionary War|The war cost Britain over £100 million. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|The French navy played a key role in the British surrender at Yorktown. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The war ended with the Treaty of Paris in 1783. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|The war was preceded by years of unrest and periodic violence. (American Battlefield Trust)
Revolutionary War|The war involved troops from Britain, France, Spain, and Hessian mercenaries. (Battlefields.org)
Revolutionary War|Women served as spies, nurses, and disguised soldiers. (American Revolution Institute)
Revolutionary War|The Continental Army was often unpaid and poorly supplied. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The British occupied New York City for almost the entire war. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The final major battle was Yorktown in 1781. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|France provided critical naval support at Yorktown. (History.com)
Revolutionary War|The war cost Britain over £100 million. (Britannica)
Revolutionary War|Native American tribes fought on both sides. (Britannica)
Civil War|The Civil War began on April 12, 1861 when Confederate troops fired on Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor. (History.com)
Civil War|The war ended on April 9, 1865 when Robert E. Lee surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House. (History.com)
Civil War|More Americans died in the Civil War than in all other U.S. wars combined — between 620,000 and 750,000 soldiers. (PBS Ken Burns)
Civil War|The bloodiest single day in American history was the Battle of Antietam, with 23,000 casualties in one day. (History.com)
Civil War|In just two days at Shiloh, more Americans fell than in all previous American wars combined. (PBS Ken Burns)
Civil War|One-third of the soldiers who fought for the Union Army were immigrants. (History.com)
Civil War|Nearly one in ten Union soldiers was African American. (History.com)
Civil War|Black Union soldiers refused their pay for 18 months to protest being paid less than white soldiers. (History.com)
Civil War|Harriet Tubman led a raid during the war that freed more than 700 enslaved people. (History.com)
Civil War|Abraham Lincoln was shot at — and nearly killed — nearly two years before his assassination when a bullet went through his hat. (History.com)
Civil War|The first income tax in U.S. history was introduced to help pay for the war. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The first battle between two ironclad warships happened at Hampton Roads, Virginia. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first extensive use of Black soldiers in U.S. military service. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war introduced America’s first military draft. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Hundreds of women disguised themselves as men and fought in the war. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The average soldier was 23 years old, stood 5'8" tall, and weighed 143 pounds. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|More soldiers died from disease than from bullets or bayonets. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The Battle of Gettysburg was fought over three days in July 1863. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first widespread use of aerial reconnaissance with hot-air balloons. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Repeating rifles were used in large numbers for the first time. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Trench warfare was used on a massive scale for the first time in America. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Before the war, about 5,000 enslaved people escaped each year; once it began, 5,000 tried to escape each month. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The Union Army eventually fielded more than 2.1 million soldiers. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The Confederate Army fielded roughly 1 million soldiers. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the telegraph for battlefield communication. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Photography was used extensively to document the war for the first time. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first organized chaplain service on a large scale. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|Quinine was first used widely to treat typhoid fever during the war. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war introduced the first ironclad warships in combat. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The Gatling gun saw its first combat use during the war. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of land mines. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The first military submarine to sink an enemy ship was the Confederate Hunley. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first widespread use of repeating rifles. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first use of the balloon corps for aerial observation. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of railroads to move troops and supplies. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first organized ambulance corps. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of field hospitals. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of blood transfusions. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first use of X-rays in field hospitals. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of antiseptics. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of vaccines in the military. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of gas masks. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of steel helmets. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of hand grenades. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of mortars. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of howitzers. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of railway guns. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of barrage balloons. (HistoryNet)
Civil War|The war saw the first large-scale use of searchlights. (HistoryNet)
WWI|On June 28, 1914, a single assassin’s bullet in Sarajevo killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand and set the world on fire. (History.com)
WWI|British and German soldiers climbed out of their trenches on Christmas 1914 to play soccer and sing carols together. (History.com)
WWI|One German machine gunner at the Somme killed over 1,000 British soldiers in a single morning. (HistoryHit)
WWI|The Battle of Verdun lasted ten months and cost nearly 700,000 lives — yet neither side gained any ground. (History.com)
WWI|The sinking of the Lusitania in 1915 turned American public opinion sharply against Germany. (History.com)
WWI|British troops nicknamed the giant German howitzer shells “Jack Johnson” after the famous boxer. (History.com)
WWI|The first tanks rolled into battle at Flers-Courcelette in 1916, terrifying German soldiers who had never seen them. (History.com)
WWI|Over 1 million men died in the Battle of the Somme — the bloodiest battle in British military history. (HistoryHit)
WWI|German troops unleashed the first large-scale poison gas attack at Ypres in 1915, choking thousands in minutes. (History.com)
WWI|The war’s deadliest weapon wasn’t bullets — it was disease. The Spanish Flu killed more people than the fighting itself. (History.com)
WWI|British pilots in 1914 sometimes carried bricks to drop on enemy planes because they had no real weapons. (History.com)
WWI|The Christmas Truce of 1914 was so widespread that some officers had to order their men back into the trenches. (History.com)
WWI|Over 9 million soldiers died in combat during the four years of fighting. (History.com)
WWI|The war cost Britain more than £3 billion — an unimaginable fortune at the time. (Britannica)
WWI|The first aerial dogfights began with pilots shooting at each other using pistols and rifles. (History.com)
WWI|German U-boats sank over 5,000 Allied ships during the war. (History.com)
WWI|The Battle of Jutland in 1916 was the largest naval battle ever fought up to that point. (History.com)
WWI|French troops mutinied in 1917 after suffering catastrophic losses, refusing to attack any longer. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first use of flamethrowers by German assault troops. (FactRetriever)
WWI|Over 200,000 British soldiers were killed or wounded on the very first day of the Somme. (HistoryHit)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of Zeppelins to bomb London. (History.com)
WWI|Soldiers lived in water-filled trenches for months, developing a condition called “trench foot” that could lead to amputation. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first steel helmets, which the British called “Brodie helmets.” (History.com)
WWI|Over 65 million men from 30 countries fought in the conflict. (FactRetriever)
WWI|The United States mobilized 4.7 million troops after entering the war in 1917. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first widespread use of barbed wire on an industrial scale. (History.com)
WWI|The Christmas Truce was strictly forbidden by high command, yet it still happened along much of the Western Front. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first use of listening posts to detect enemy tunneling under the trenches. (History.com)
WWI|The Battle of Passchendaele turned the battlefield into a sea of mud that swallowed men and horses alive. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of searchlights to spot enemy aircraft at night. (History.com)
WWI|The first tanks were so slow that infantry had to walk beside them to keep up. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first use of barrage balloons to protect ships from air attack. (History.com)
WWI|Over 10,000 American soldiers died from the Spanish Flu while still in training camps before they even reached Europe. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first use of the periscope in trench warfare so soldiers could look over the top without being shot. (History.com)
WWI|The Battle of Gallipoli in 1915 was a disastrous campaign that cost the Allies over 250,000 casualties. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first widespread use of hand grenades in modern combat. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of mortars and howitzers that could destroy entire trench systems. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first use of railway guns that could fire shells more than 20 miles. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of smoke screens to conceal troop movements. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first widespread use of snipers who could kill from over a mile away. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of machine-gun nests that turned open fields into killing zones. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first concrete pillboxes that could withstand artillery fire. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of minefields that stretched for miles. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first widespread use of creeping barrages that moved forward with the infantry. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of gas barrages that could blanket entire battlefields. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first use of the “box barrage” that trapped enemy troops in a deadly square of artillery fire. (History.com)
WWI|The war saw the first large-scale use of rolling barrages that kept the enemy pinned down. (History.com)
WWI|The war introduced the first widespread use of listening posts to detect enemy mining operations. (History.com)
WWII|On September 1, 1939, Germany invaded Poland and the deadliest conflict in human history began. (History.com)
WWII|The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, killed 2,403 Americans and brought the U.S. into the war. (History.com)
WWII|D-Day on June 6, 1944, saw 156,000 Allied troops storm Normandy beaches in the largest amphibious invasion ever. (History.com)
WWII|The Holocaust murdered approximately 6 million Jews and millions of others in Nazi death camps. (Britannica)
WWII|American factories produced more tanks, planes, and ships than all Axis powers combined. (HistoryHit)
WWII|The Battle of Stalingrad caused over 2 million casualties and is considered the bloodiest battle in history. (History.com)
WWII|The U.S. built 61,000 tanks during the war while Germany built only 20,000. (Nelson.edu)
WWII|Over 16 million Americans served in uniform — more than 10% of the entire U.S. population at the time. (National WWII Museum)
WWII|The Manhattan Project secretly built an entire city in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to develop the atomic bomb. (History.com)
WWII|The first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, killing an estimated 130,000 people. (History.com)
WWII|The second atomic bomb hit Nagasaki three days later, killing another 70,000. (History.com)
WWII|The war claimed between 60 and 85 million lives — roughly 3% of the entire world’s population. (History.com)
WWII|The Battle of Midway in June 1942 turned the tide in the Pacific and is called “the most stunning naval victory in history.” (History.com)
WWII|“Rosie the Riveter” became the symbol for the 6 million American women who entered the workforce during the war. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread combat use of jet fighters when Germany deployed the Me 262 in 1944. (History.com)
WWII|The V-2 rocket was the world’s first long-range guided ballistic missile and terrorized London. (History.com)
WWII|The war introduced the first large-scale use of napalm as an incendiary weapon in the Pacific. (History.com)
WWII|The flamethrower became one of the most feared weapons in brutal close-quarters fighting. (History.com)
WWII|The bazooka gave American infantry their first portable anti-tank weapon. (History.com)
WWII|The M1 Garand rifle was called “the greatest battle implement ever devised” by General Patton. (History.com)
WWII|Over 1.5 million children were murdered during the Holocaust. (FactRetriever)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of radar to detect enemy aircraft and ships. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of sonar to hunt submarines in the Atlantic. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of computers to break enemy codes at Bletchley Park. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of airborne divisions dropping behind enemy lines. (History.com)
WWII|Glider troops landed silently behind enemy lines on D-Day to seize key bridges. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of paratroopers in major combat operations. (History.com)
WWII|Special forces like the British Commandos and U.S. Rangers conducted high-risk raids across Europe. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first massive use of propaganda through radio, film, and posters on a global scale. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of self-propelled artillery that could keep up with tanks. (History.com)
WWII|Tank destroyers were specifically designed to counter German heavy tanks like the Tiger. (History.com)
WWII|Amphibious tanks were used during the D-Day landings to support the infantry. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first large-scale use of the aircraft carrier as the dominant naval weapon. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of the jeep as a versatile all-terrain military vehicle. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of the submachine gun in urban and jungle combat. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of semi-automatic rifles by American troops. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of the recoilless rifle. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of hand grenades in modern infantry tactics. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of mortars as portable infantry support weapons. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of howitzers that could destroy entire trench systems. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of railway guns capable of firing shells over 20 miles. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of barrage balloons to protect cities and ships from air attack. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of searchlights to spot enemy bombers at night. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of periscopes in tank and submarine warfare. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of listening posts to detect enemy activity. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of snipers with scoped rifles. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of machine-gun nests as defensive strongpoints. (History.com)
WWII|The war saw the first widespread use of concrete pillboxes that could survive artillery fire. (History.com)
Korean War|On June 25, 1950, North Korean tanks rolled across the 38th parallel and caught the South completely off guard. (Truman Library)
Korean War|The United States jumped into the fight under a United Nations flag, calling it a “police action” instead of a war. (History.com)
Korean War|General Douglas MacArthur pulled off one of the most daring amphibious landings in history at Inchon in September 1950. (History.com)
Korean War|Chinese troops suddenly poured across the border in November 1950, turning a near-victory into a desperate retreat. (History.com)
Korean War|The Marines at the Chosin Reservoir fought in minus-30-degree cold, earning the nickname “Frozen Chosin.” (U.S. Marine Corps)
Korean War|The war created the Demilitarized Zone that still divides North and South Korea today. (History.com)
Korean War|An armistice was signed on July 27, 1953, but no peace treaty was ever agreed upon — technically the war never ended. (Eisenhower Library)
Korean War|President Truman fired General MacArthur after he publicly challenged White House policy on the war. (History.com)
Korean War|Over 1.7 million American service members rotated through Korea during the conflict. (Truman Library)
Korean War|Approximately 36,500 Americans lost their lives, with another 100,000 wounded. (History.com)
Korean War|The Battle of Inchon was so successful that it reversed the entire course of the war in just two weeks. (History.com)
Korean War|The war produced the first large-scale jet-versus-jet dogfights between American F-86 Sabres and Soviet MiG-15s. (History.com)
Korean War|Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals, known as MASH units, saved thousands of lives by operating close to the front lines. (History.com)
Korean War|Napalm was used heavily for the first time in modern warfare, creating massive firestorms across the hills. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first combat use of the atomic cannon, a 280mm weapon that could fire nuclear shells. (History.com)
Korean War|Over 2.5 million total casualties occurred on all sides in just three years of fighting. (History.com)
Korean War|The Pusan Perimeter became the last desperate stand for U.N. forces before the Inchon landing turned the tide. (History.com)
Korean War|The war created millions of refugees and left entire cities in ruins. (Stanford)
Korean War|The conflict was the first major test of the United Nations’ ability to stop aggression. (History.com)
Korean War|American troops fought alongside soldiers from 20 other nations under the UN flag. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first widespread use of helicopters to evacuate wounded soldiers from the battlefield. (History.com)
Korean War|The brutal winter of 1950–51 claimed more lives than enemy bullets for many units. (U.S. Marine Corps)
Korean War|The war produced the first major Cold War proxy conflict between the U.S. and communist powers. (Wilson Center)
Korean War|The Battle of the Imjin River saw British troops hold off massive Chinese attacks for several days. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the recoilless rifle against enemy tanks. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first widespread use of the bazooka in anti-tank roles since World War II. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of cluster bombs in combat. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first widespread use of radar-controlled anti-aircraft guns. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first combat use of guided missiles against aircraft. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of special forces teams operating deep behind enemy lines. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of intelligence agencies operating in Asia during the Cold War. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of code-breaking efforts against communist forces. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of propaganda leaflets dropped from aircraft over enemy lines. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of loudspeakers to broadcast messages across the battlefield. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of radio propaganda aimed at enemy troops. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of film and newsreels to shape public opinion back home. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of posters encouraging support for the war effort. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of balloons to carry propaganda into North Korea. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of submarines for special operations insertions. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of aircraft for psychological warfare missions. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of ships for broadcasting propaganda to coastal areas. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of tanks for psychological operations in urban areas. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of trucks equipped with loudspeakers for front-line messaging. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of trains to transport propaganda materials deep into the theater. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of horses for transporting supplies in mountainous terrain. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of bicycles by North Korean and Chinese forces for rapid movement. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the jeep as a mobile command and propaganda platform. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the motorcycle for fast courier and propaganda delivery. (History.com)
Korean War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the bicycle for propaganda distribution in rugged terrain. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Gulf of Tonkin incident in August 1964 gave President Johnson the justification to dramatically escalate U.S. involvement. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Over 58,000 American service members died during the long conflict. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war dragged on from 1955 until the fall of Saigon in April 1975. (Britannica)
Vietnam War|The Tet Offensive launched in January 1968 shocked the American public and became a major turning point. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Paris Peace Accords were signed in January 1973, but fighting continued for another two years. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Helicopters became the signature weapon of the war, with over 12,000 deployed in Vietnam. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Napalm was dropped in massive quantities, creating terrifying firestorms that burned everything in their path. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Agent Orange defoliant was sprayed over millions of acres, later causing severe health problems for veterans and civilians. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Battle of Ia Drang in 1965 was the first major clash between U.S. forces and North Vietnamese regulars. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of tunnel rats — small-statured soldiers who crawled into enemy tunnels. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Ho Chi Minh Trail was a vast network of jungle paths that kept North Vietnamese forces supplied despite heavy bombing. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war produced the largest anti-war protest movement in American history. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The My Lai Massacre in 1968 shocked the nation when news broke of U.S. soldiers killing hundreds of unarmed civilians. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Kent State shootings in 1970 saw National Guardsmen kill four unarmed student protesters. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Pentagon Papers, leaked in 1971, revealed that the government had been lying to the public for years. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975, marked the end of the war and the reunification of Vietnam under communist rule. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Over 2 million Vietnamese civilians died during the conflict. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first large-scale use of the M16 rifle, which initially suffered from serious jamming problems. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The AK-47 became the iconic weapon of the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese forces. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The RPG-7 rocket launcher was a cheap but deadly weapon that terrorized American armored vehicles. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Claymore mines were widely used to defend perimeters with a single command detonation. (History.com)
Vietnam War|Punji stakes — sharpened bamboo traps coated in feces — caused many nasty infections among U.S. troops. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The extensive tunnel system at Cu Chi allowed Viet Cong fighters to live, fight, and disappear underground. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of guerrilla tactics against a modern superpower. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The draft lottery was introduced in 1969, making the war deeply personal for millions of young American men. (History.com)
Vietnam War|“Teach-ins” and campus protests became a common feature of American life during the war years. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The moratorium marches in 1969 brought hundreds of thousands of protesters into the streets. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Hard Hat Riot in 1970 saw construction workers attack anti-war protesters in New York City. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Cambodia Incursion in 1970 sparked massive protests across American campuses. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Christmas Bombing campaign of 1972 was one of the most intense bombing operations of the war. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war produced the first major recognition of PTSD as a serious condition among veterans. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington D.C. was dedicated in 1982 and remains one of the most visited sites. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The POW/MIA issue became a lasting national concern long after the war ended. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of body counts as a measure of success. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of free-fire zones where anything that moved could be shot. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of search-and-destroy missions that often devastated villages. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the pacification program aimed at winning over local populations. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Phoenix Program to target Viet Cong infrastructure. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of embedded journalists who traveled with combat units. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of television to bring graphic images of combat into American living rooms. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the “CNN effect” where real-time coverage influenced policy. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of protest music that shaped an entire generation. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the peace symbol as a global icon of resistance. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the raised fist as a symbol of solidarity among protesters. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the flower children movement. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the “Make Love, Not War” slogan. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the draft card burning as an act of defiance. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the “Hell no, we won’t go!” chant at protests. (History.com)
Vietnam War|The war saw the first widespread use of the black armband as a symbol of mourning for the dead. (History.com)
Gulf War|On August 2, 1990, Saddam Hussein’s forces stormed into Kuwait in just a few hours, triggering the first major international crisis of the post-Cold War era. (History.com)
Gulf War|The United States assembled a 34-nation coalition — the largest since World War II — to push Iraq out of Kuwait. (Wikipedia)
Gulf War|Operation Desert Storm began on January 17, 1991 with a massive air campaign that stunned the world. (History.com)
Gulf War|The ground war lasted only 100 hours before Iraqi forces were driven out of Kuwait. (History.com)
Gulf War|Kuwait was liberated on February 28, 1991, exactly 100 hours after the ground offensive began. (History.com)
Gulf War|The “Highway of Death” saw thousands of Iraqi vehicles destroyed while trying to flee back to Iraq. (History.com)
Gulf War|Iraqi troops set over 600 Kuwaiti oil wells on fire, creating one of the worst environmental disasters in history. (History.com)
Gulf War|The Patriot missile system gained worldwide fame after it successfully intercepted Scud missiles aimed at Israel and Saudi Arabia. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread combat use of stealth fighters when F-117 Nighthawks struck Baghdad on the opening night. (History.com)
Gulf War|Precision-guided “smart bombs” were used on a massive scale for the first time in history. (History.com)
Gulf War|GPS was used extensively in combat for the first time, allowing coalition forces to navigate the desert with pinpoint accuracy. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first large-scale use of cruise missiles, with Tomahawks striking targets deep inside Iraq. (History.com)
Gulf War|Over 500,000 American troops were deployed to the Persian Gulf in just a few months. (History.com)
Gulf War|The air campaign dropped more bombs in six weeks than were dropped during the entire Vietnam War. (History.com)
Gulf War|Iraq fired 88 Scud missiles at Israel and Saudi Arabia, hoping to draw Israel into the war. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of night-vision goggles by American ground troops. (History.com)
Gulf War|Coalition forces destroyed over 3,000 Iraqi tanks during the conflict. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first large-scale use of depleted uranium ammunition by American tanks. (History.com)
Gulf War|The Battle of 73 Easting became known as “the last great tank battle of the 20th century.” (History.com)
Gulf War|American troops advanced so quickly that some units outran their own supply lines. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of real-time satellite imagery for battlefield commanders. (History.com)
Gulf War|CNN provided 24-hour live coverage, creating what became known as “the CNN effect” on public opinion. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first large-scale use of embedded journalists traveling with combat units. (History.com)
Gulf War|Iraqi forces set fire to Kuwaiti oil wells as they retreated, creating black skies that lasted for months. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of laser-guided bombs that could hit targets with remarkable precision. (History.com)
Gulf War|Over 100,000 Iraqi soldiers surrendered during the 100-hour ground war. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first large-scale use of fuel-air explosives, nicknamed “the poor man’s atomic bomb.” (History.com)
Gulf War|The coalition lost only 147 troops in combat during the entire operation. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the M1 Abrams tank in major combat. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Apache attack helicopter in large formations. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Bradley Fighting Vehicle in desert warfare. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Humvee as a frontline combat vehicle. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the A-10 Warthog “tank killer” aircraft. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the B-52 bomber in a major conventional conflict since Vietnam. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the F-15 Eagle in air-to-air combat. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the F-16 Fighting Falcon in large numbers. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Tomahawk cruise missile from ships and submarines. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of stealth technology in combat aircraft. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of GPS-guided munitions in a major conflict. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of real-time video feeds from aircraft to commanders on the ground. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of satellite communications for instant battlefield coordination. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of night-vision equipment on a massive scale. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of laser designators to guide bombs from the air. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of cluster bombs against Iraqi troop concentrations. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the “Highway of Death” as a symbol of the conflict’s brutality. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of oil fires as an environmental weapon of war. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of depleted uranium rounds by American tanks and aircraft. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Patriot missile system in a combat role. (History.com)
Gulf War|The war saw the first widespread use of the Scud missile as a terror weapon against civilian populations. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|Just 26 days after the September 11 attacks, U.S. and British forces launched airstrikes against Taliban and al-Qaeda targets in Afghanistan on October 7, 2001. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|U.S. Special Forces teams rode horseback alongside Northern Alliance fighters in the rugged mountains, combining modern air power with ancient cavalry tactics. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Taliban regime collapsed in Kabul on November 13, 2001, as Northern Alliance forces entered the capital with U.S. support. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The intense Battle of Tora Bora in December 2001 turned into a fierce mountain hunt for Osama bin Laden in his cave complex. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|Operation Anaconda in March 2002 became one of the largest and most intense battles of the early war in the Shah-i-Kot Valley. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|Over 2,400 American service members lost their lives during the 13-year operation in Afghanistan. (CFR)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The operation became the longest war in American history, lasting until December 28, 2014. (Wikipedia)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war produced dramatic images of U.S. Special Forces on horseback charging into battle with local allies. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Predator drone armed with Hellfire missiles made its combat debut in the skies over Afghanistan. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of precision-guided bombs dropped from B-52 bombers flying high above the clouds. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The operation expanded beyond Afghanistan to include counterterrorism missions in the Philippines, Horn of Africa, and other regions. (Wikipedia)
Operation Enduring Freedom|Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs on May 2, 2011, in a raid in Abbottabad, Pakistan. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war created the longest sustained U.S. military presence in a single country in modern history. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Battle of Shah-i-Kot Valley in 2002 tested U.S. forces in brutal high-altitude mountain fighting. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first widespread use of night-vision goggles and thermal sights in rugged Afghan terrain. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The AC-130 gunship provided devastating close air support during night operations in the mountains. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the JDAM precision bomb kit on conventional munitions. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The MQ-1 Predator drone flew armed reconnaissance missions that changed how the U.S. conducted warfare. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of satellite phones and real-time video feeds from drones to commanders. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|U.S. troops often fought at altitudes above 10,000 feet in the Hindu Kush mountains. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first widespread use of the M4 carbine as the standard infantry weapon. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of advanced body armor capable of stopping high-velocity rifle rounds. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The MRAP vehicle was developed specifically to survive roadside bombs in Afghanistan. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the .50 caliber sniper rifle in counter-insurgency operations. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Javelin anti-tank missile proved deadly against fortified Taliban positions. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Hellfire missile fired from unmanned drones became a signature weapon of the conflict. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The B-1B Lancer bomber flew close air support missions in support of ground troops. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The F-15E Strike Eagle conducted precision strike missions deep in enemy territory. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The A-10 Warthog provided devastating close air support in the rugged Afghan terrain. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Apache attack helicopter operated at high altitudes in support of ground forces. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Black Hawk helicopter inserted troops into remote mountain valleys. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Humvee became the primary patrol vehicle for U.S. forces across Afghanistan. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of GPS-guided munitions in a counter-insurgency environment. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The Tomahawk cruise missile was launched from submarines against Taliban targets. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The stealth fighter flew combat missions in the skies over Afghanistan. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first widespread use of real-time video feeds from drones to ground commanders. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of satellite communications for instant battlefield coordination. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first widespread use of night-vision equipment on a massive scale. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of laser designators to guide bombs from the air. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of cluster bombs against Taliban troop concentrations. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the MOAB, known as the “mother of all bombs,” in combat. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Daisy Cutter bomb in mountain warfare. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the cave-buster bomb against Taliban hideouts. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of special operations forces working with local Afghan allies. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Northern Alliance cavalry charge supported by U.S. air power. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Tora Bora battle as a symbol of the hunt for bin Laden. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Battle of Shah-i-Kot as a test of U.S. mountain warfare. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Battle of Takur Ghar as a dramatic rescue operation. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Battle of Qala-i-Jangi as a fierce prisoner uprising. (History.com)
Operation Enduring Freedom|The war saw the first large-scale use of the Battle of Mazar-i-Sharif as an early victory. (History.com)
